# Errors {#sec-errors}

## !already_has_parent {#error-already_has_parent}

@see event_node->son

## !argument_count {#error-argument_count}

This error is raised by variables and methods (i.e. behaviour) when the
number of arguments supplied cannot be matched against the type-checking
vector.

@see !argument_type

## !argument_type {#error-argument_type}

This error is raised by variables and methods (i.e. behaviour) and
various other methods to indicate that the n-th argument is not of the
requested type.  Argument counting starts *after* the selection:

	send(@display, inform, 'Hello %s', universe).
			      ^^1-st^^  ^^2-nd^^

@see !argument_count
@see !bad_selector

## !backup_file {#error-backup_file}

@see file->backup

## !bad_file {#error-bad_file}

This error is raised when the system attempts to read a file that should
be in a particular format, but the file is not of this format.  Common
types:

- object
	Raised by `file <-object` if the file is not created using
	`object ->save_in_file`

- image
	Raised by `image ->load` if the file does not contain an image
	(bitmap) description in one of the formats recognised by XPCE,.

@see image->load
@see file<-object

## !bad_file_name {#error-bad_file_name}

This error is raised if an illegal filename is encountered.  A filename
is considered illegal iff:

- It is too long (maximum lenght depends on the operating system
	used).

- It starts with ~username and `username` is not the name of an
	existing user (Unix only)

- There is a construct $VARNAME and _VARNAME_ is not the
	name of an existing variable.

## !bad_return_value {#error-bad_return_value}

This error is generated if a method returns a value that cannot be
converted into the type `get_method <-return_type`.

@see !converted_return_value
@see get_method-return_type

## !bad_selector {#error-bad_selector}

The error is generated by the virtual machine operations send() and get()
if the selector cannot be translated into a name.

@see !argument_type

## !bad_slot_value {#error-bad_slot_value}

@see object->_check

## !bad_type_syntax {#error-bad_type_syntax}

This error is generated on a syntax error in a type specification.  See
`type <-convert` for valid type declarations.

@see type<-convert

## !bad_vector_usage {#error-bad_vector_usage}

Raised by the various methods that accept a vector as a sequence of
arguments.  The syntax of such methods is always:

	unchecked..., vector, [int]

See `object ->send_vector`

@see object->send_vector

## !cannot_save_object {#error-cannot_save_object}

This error is raised by `object ->save_in_file` if it encounters an
object it cannot save.  The object will be saved as @nil.

An object cannot be saved iff is has instance variables of type
`alien:<C-type>` and the object's class variable `save_function` is not
defined (i.e. 0).

The methods `object ->save_in_file` and `file <-object` are intended to
save *data* objects and *not* to save *UI* objects.  PCE can save almost
all data objects, but only very few of the X-window related objects.

@see object->save_in_file

## !checked_objects {#error-checked_objects}

This message is raised by `object ->_check` to indicate the number of
objects it has checked.

@see object->_check

## !converted_return_value {#error-converted_return_value}

This error is raised if the value returned by a get_method object's
implementation does not match `get_method <-return_type` but could be
translated.  The method will return with the translated type.

@see get_method-return_type
@see !bad_return_value

## !creating {#error-creating}

Format: %O: Creating flag set
This error is generated by `object ->_check` (normally invoked
through checkpce/0).  It indicates that the object was
allocated, but it's ->initialise method has not (yet) returned.
This may be the case if a fatal error was trapped or a Prolog
abort was generated during the execution of the ->initialise
method.  The object should be expected to be in inconsistent
state.  In most cases you can safely continue using the image
though as the object should normally not be referenced.

@see object->_check

## !freed_cell_value {#error-freed_cell_value}

@see !freed_slot_value
@see object->_check

## !freed_element_value {#error-freed_element_value}

@see !freed_slot_value
@see object->_check

## !freed_key_value {#error-freed_key_value}

@see !freed_value_value
@see !freed_slot_value
@see object->_check

## !freed_slot_value {#error-freed_slot_value}

Raised by `object ->_check` to indicate that a particular slot contains
an object that has been freed.

@see !freed_value_value
@see !freed_key_value
@see !freed_element_value
@see !freed_cell_value
@see object->_check

## !freed_value_value {#error-freed_value_value}

@see !freed_key_value
@see !freed_slot_value
@see object->_check

## !killed_on_exit {#error-killed_on_exit}

PCE kills all inferior processes while exiting.  This message is printed
for each process killed.

@see pce-exit_messages
@see class process

## !no_behaviour {#error-no_behaviour}

The error `no_behaviour` is raised by the virtual machine operations
send() and get() if there is no implementation for the requested
selector on the requested object.

By changing the <-kind of this error, not-implemented behaviour may be
ignored (<-kind: ignored); just printed (<-kind: warning) or
trap the tracer (<-kind: error).  By default, undefined
behaviour is just printed.  For program development we advice to
switch <-kind of this error to `error`.  This may be achieved
using the _Error Browser_ or using the following line in your
~/.xpcerc:

	:- send(error(no_behaviour), kind, error).

## !no_variable {#error-no_variable}

@see object->_check

## !replaced_by_colour {#error-replaced_by_colour}

%O: replaced by colour(%N)
The X11 versions allows colours to be replaced by pixmap
objects, The MS-Windows version does not allow this.  If a
pixmap object is specified as a colour, the system will check
whether the pixmap is derived from one of the standard
grey-patterns (@grey25_image, etc.) and replace the pixmap by a
grey colour.  If this fails it will use colour(black).  This
error is raised if a pixmap is replaced.

You may redefine the mapping by attaching an `object ->attribute`
named `replacement_colour` to the pixmap.

## !replaced_colour {#error-replaced_colour}

format: %O: replaced by colour(%N)
A colour was replaced by a (close) colour because the system
colour map is full.

